Javascript

What is javascript? How does it work?
What is an asynchronous operation ? Is Javascript synchronous or asynchronous.
Explain async using set timeout.
JS is a single threaded or multi threaded ?
Is JS asynchronous or synchronous language ?
Difference between var let and const
What is hoisting
What is a promise? What are the states of promises. What is promisify?
What is async await?
Difference between promise and async & await. Is async await notation preferred over promises? If so, why?
What are JavaScript Objects ? how to create them.
How to search for a value or a key in an object?
What is a callback function?
What are the drawbacks of callback and what is callback hell.
 What is the difference between callback and promise. How can you write the same async operation using promise and callback
Difference between function and arrow function
Difference between i++ and ++i
What is the “this” operator?
What is the closure concept?
what is closure - with code, why is it required, it's benefits
What is json? What do the functions json.parse and json.stringify do?
What is the difference between '==' and '===' operators?
What is the typeof operator? What is NaN?
What are settimeout and setinterval functions and what is the difference between them?
What is functional scope and block scope?
What is shallowCopy and deepCopy
What is the difference between map and filter. Explain math , the built-in javascript object, functionalities.
What is ES6? Explain some features of ES6
Difference btw typescript & javascript.
what is regex?
what is first class functions
diff between primitive and reference data types
Difference between null and undefined
difference between slice and splice
what is spread operater and rest operator
how to convert intiger to string and string to integer
Explain JS Object methods like- Object.Keys,  Object.values and Object.entries


API

What is an API?
What are Rest Api?
What are rest Api ? why they are stateless?
What are the different ways to pass data to an API while requesting a Create operation? Discuss the Content-Type header in brief
Explain the GET, POST, PUT, POST and PATCH method types
DIfference between PUt and Patch
What is an HTTP status code? Discuss the popularly used codes along with their usecase.
What are http status codes? Please elaborate?


Nodejs

What is Nodejs? What is the difference between Javascript and Nodejs?
Node js is single threaded or multi threaded? Explain in detail what that means.
What is meant by request and response cycle in a nodejs application?
What is express? What are the benefits of using this framework?
What is Middleware? What are global and route level middlewares?
Explain about application and route based middleware?
What is the function of an express router? What is a route and route splitting?
How Nodejs is different from a multithreaded architecture?
What is .env file or environment variables? Why are they important?
What is an event loop? Explain with an example.
security  -  how would you protect your node js server?



MongodDb

Why is a database? Name a few examples.
Why you use MongoDB over MySQL and PostgreSQL?  MySql vs MongoDb ( or SQL/RDBMS vs NoSql).
Compare relational and non-Relational databases and their benefits or drawbacks?
What kind of db is MongoDb? Why do we define schema in nodejs application when working with Mongodb if it is schema-less?
What is an aggregation pipeline? What are some stages used in it?
What is a  Schema and a model in mongoose. How are they different?
Discuss some common mongoose APIs for CRUD operations.
Why do you have to use await if you want to process the result.
What are indexes?  What is the default index value set by MongoDB?
What do you mean by database indexing?
How to link the document of one collection to a document in another collection using mongoose. Explain reference in mongoose.
What is the difference between find, findOne, findOneAndUpdate and findById APIs.
Allso between updateOne, update and updateMany? When should you use each?


AWS

What is AWS and AWS S3 ?
What are the command to push in AWS S3?
What is meant by a bucket?
Can we upload image in database w/o using AWS S3. What are the benefits of using s3 instead?


Caching

        

What is meant by cache and caching?
Why we use redis
Why do we need redis if we have databases?
Redis advantages and disadvantages.
Explain cache miss and cache hit.


Auth

What is authentication and authorization? What is the difference between them?
What is jwt? Describe the parts of JWT? What are the benefits of using a JWT
Why authorization is necessary?
How did you protected your Routes?

Project

How do you implement authentication in your project?
 Explain the flow how a user is authenticated and the prerequisite for the same (token generation and sharing with the client)
How to generate a token ? How to verify it ?
Explain URL shortener project (explain the overview, features and how using redis). What is shortid. What happens if the same long url is passed in the request twice. How can you create a unique short code without using shortid package? How is the redirection happening?
Why do we use mvc (model view controller) in projects
Deploy your project on Heroku ?

Other (OOPS + Git + Multithreading)

OOPS overview.
What is inheritance and abstraction .
What is Git?
What are some basic git commands?
What is a Git repository and branches?
What is difference between Git and GitHub
What is class,id in html? What is DOM?

